# REACT State


### What is state?
- State in computer science shows its current values or contents.

- State in React allows us to dynamically change one or many elements at once based on one variable.

- One major goal of having state is to keep track of information between renders.

- To store state, use a feature of React called "hooks" - useState()

### useState()

- useState function receives an optional argument which is the default value for the state. 

- useState returns an array.

- The first element of the array is the current value for the state.

- The second element is a function that can update the state and cause a render.

1. Import useState

```js
import React, { useState } from "react";
```
2. use useState

```js
function Application(props) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <main>
      <Button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>Increment</Button>
      <h1>Button was clicked {count} times.</h1>
    </main>
  );
}
```

### Fancy Buttons 

1. Understand or planning for projects

2. Clean up some defaults that cam with create-react-app

3. Make componets in components file that newly created.

4. Import all the components on App.js

5. Importing The useState Hook to each components

6. Using useState / Add variable / Add style / Add conditionals on each components 

7. Setting A Default State - ***useState(startingValue)***

8. Updating The States Of Our Components


### Controlled Components

- Why we use Controlled Components? 

1. We can set or reset the value of an input field by changing the state that controls it.

2. We want to make React the 'single source of truth' for our application state.

3. The controlled component pattern allows us to choose our own way to manage state for a component.


```js
function DisplayWord(props) {
  const [word, setWord] = useState("");

  return (
    <main>
      <input
        value={word}
        onChange={(event) => setWord(event.target.value)}
        placeholder="Please enter a word"
      />
      <h1>Your word is: {word}.</h1>
    </main>
  );
}
```

### Fragments

- Components can only return JSX with one root element.

- Mostly we use div tag , but if we have extra div tag, it would make another error. (we don't want to add unnecessary DOM nodes)

- In that case, we can use <React.Fragment> short hand -> <> </>

-  Use shorthand where possible, but use <Fragment> if the component should be passed props.

```js

import React, { Fragment } from 'react';

const userLoggedIn = false;

return (
  <Fragment>
    {userLoggedIn ? 
    <>
      <h1>Success!</h1>
      <p>You are logged in.</p>
    </>
    :
    <>
      <h1>Warning!</h1>
      <p>You are not logged in</p>
    </>
    }
  </Fragment>
)
```

### Styling Components

- Using BEM for naming className

```js
<li class="day-list__item">Default</li>
<li class="day-list__item day-list__item---selected">Selected</li>
<li class="day-list__item day-list__item---full">Full</li>
<li class="day-list__item day-list__item---selected day-list__item---full">
  Selected & Full
</li>
```

### Storybook , Webpack-dev-server , Jest , Cypress

- All different environment for testing 
