# Using API


### Whole process 
1. Making a request to the API from within APPLICATION component 
2. When we receive a response,
3. We will store the JSON data as the Application state. 

(When we use axios for this, axios makes the data into JSON format automatically but
when we use fetch, we need to form the data into JSON )

### Hooks
1. Don't call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.

2. Only call Hooks from inside React components.

3. The effect method that we pass to useEffect must either return undefined or a function.

### Data fetching process

1. The component has no results when React renders it the first time.
2. The component makes an asynchronous request to the API server.
3. The data for the component is returned in the response.
4. The component can now be updated with the data using an action that sets the state.


=> summary : When we make requests to an API server it is considered a side effect of rendering a component. We can manage a side effect like this one with the useEffect Hook provided by the React library.



### Classes
- componentDidMount
- componentDidUpdate
- componentWillUnmount


### Side Effects

- Any operation that modifies the state of the computer or interacts with something outside of your program is said to have a side effect

- Common side effects: 
(Whenever it interacts with others)
1. Writing to standard out (eg. console.log)
2. Modifying the DOM directly (instead of relying on React) - document.title
3. Establishing socket connections (eg. ws or Socket.io)
4. Retrieving data from an API (eg. axios, jQuery, or the fetch API)
5. Setting timers or intervals - setTimeout, setInterval

- So, if it's not a pure function, it causes side effects. and that makes React render infinetely. To prevent that, we use useEffect hook.


### useEffect

- useEffect is a Hook we can use to deal with side effects in our components. 

- The effect hook fires after the browser has painted the DOM

- We request the data after the initial render. 

- Timers, event listeners and socket connections are examples of side effects that require cleanup.

```jsx
useEffect(() => {}); // will be called on every render
useEffect(() => {}, [username]); // will be called on initial render and then only if `username` changes
useEffect(() => {}, []); // only calls the callback on startup/initial render
```

### Dependencies

- The second argument to useEffect is a dependency array that lets you specify when you want the hook to run

- The hook will run again anytime the value of a dependency changes

```jsx
// will run every time the value of user.firstName changes
useEffect(() => {
  document.title = `${user.firstName}'s Home Page`;
}, [user.firstName]);

// infinite loop because it runs every time count gets updated
useEffect(() => {
  setCount(count + 1);
}, [count]);

```

### Cleanup

- Sometimes side effects need to be cleaned up (eg. socket connections terminated)

- To perform cleanup, return a function from your useEffect

- 레스토랑에 갔는데 테이블을 엄청 지저분하게 해놓고 치우지않고 다른테이블로 가서 결국 모든 테이블을 다 더럽힌다면 레스토랑은 더이상 손님을 받을수 없다. 이처럼 cleanup을 하지 않으면 브라우저의 캐시를 다 써서 로딩이 느려지거나 오류가 생길수있으므로 몇몇 상황애서는 cleanup을 꼭 해줘야한다. - clearInterval()


```jsx
const [timer, setTimer] = useState(0);

useEffect(() => {
  // set up an interval to increment a timer
  const myInterval = setInterval(() => {
    setTimer(timer => timer + 1);
  }, 1000);

  // declare a cleanup function
  const cleanup = () => {
    clearInterval(myInterval);
  };

  return cleanup;
}, []);
```

### useEffect Flow

1. React turns your JSX into HTML (client-side rendering) and updates the DOM
2. The browser responds to the change by updating the UI
3. Any cleanup for effects from the previous render are performed
4. New effects for the current render are performed



### axios

- React doesn't have a built-in function for fetching data
- we will need to use a third party library called ***axios*** to perform the actual data fetching.

- Before using react, using jQuery's built in $.ajax function.

- now i don't need them!!!!!! hell yeahahahah

- axios.get(url[, config])
- axios.post(url[, config])
- axios.put(url[, config])
- axios.delete(url[, config])

```jsx
axios
  .get("/api/appointments")
  .then((response) => {
    console.log(response);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log(error.response.status);
    console.log(error.response.headers);
    console.log(error.response.data);
  });
```
```jsx
  useEffect(() => {
    const testURL = `/search?term=${term}&country=CA&media=music&entity=album&attribute=artistTerm`;
    axios.get(testURL).then(response => {
      console.log(response.data.results);
    });
  }, [term]);

//The dependency list is always an important consideration when you create any effect.
```

### CORS
- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
-  HTTP-header based mechanism
- allows a server to show any origin
- When dealing with external APIs from the front-end, you may come across a CORS issue.

### Summary 
- We can use axios to fetch data with any view library. 
- When we use it with React, we combine it with the useEffect Hook to create a side effect.


### Selectors
-  To compute new data from existing state in an application
-  a function that accepts state as an argument and returns data that is derived from that state.

- The first is that we can transform the data into a format that is compatible with what our components expect as props. 
- The second is so that we can compute new data from existing data. 
- Writing unit tests to confirm all of the functionality is an excellent way to approach the development of selectors.
-> activity from Scheduler on selector.js & selectors.test.js


### Complex state management

```jsx

  const [state, setState] = useState({
    day: "Monday",
    days: [],
    appointments: {}
  })

  const setDay = (day) => setState( prev => ({ ...prev, day }));

  const setDays = (days) => setState(prev => ({ ...prev, days }));

  const appointmentListItems = Object.values(appointments).map(appointment => {
    return (
      <Appointment 

        key={appointment.id}
        {...appointment}
      
      />
    )
  })

  useEffect(() => {
    axios.get("/api/days")
      .then(res => {
        console.log("res:", res);
        // res.data --> days

        setDays(res.data);
      })
  }, [])


```

### Promise.all 
- We use promise.all when we want to fetch data from different endpoints because we don't want to only some of the data are fetched not all of them. We want to make sure that we get all the right data at the same time for the rendering. 
- Think about the pizza delivery service. 

```jsx

  Promise.all([
    axios.get('/api/days'),
    axios.get('/api/appointments')
  ]).then((all) => {

    setState((prev) => ({
      ...prev, days: all[0].data, appointments: all[1].data
    }))
  })
```
